Pray, Father, we bless you.
Perfect love for stepping down into such an imperfect world.
But the perfect love as we come into a season such as this, the greatest time of the year of Thanksgiving and Christmas, we give you thanks that you came.
And we give you praise that you became the Lamb of God who took away the sin of the world.
Thank you for coming the perfect Lamb so that we can come and know that we're forgiven and have the peace of God ruling in our hearts today, knowing that perfect love is walking among us today because the Word is alive here.
Let it be as you would say it would be not to return void, minister to your people apart from the imperfection of man.
Just let your word flow.
And maybe we get in the flow of where your word is going.
And I pray this in your name, Amen.
Genesis, chapter 48, verse one and two, let's read.
Now it came to pass after these things that Joseph was told, indeed your father is sick.
And he took with him his two sons, Manasseh.
and Ephraim.
And Jacob was told, look, your son Joseph is coming to you and Israel strengthened himself and sat up on the bed.
I love it always as when it flips back and forth between Jacob, the old conniver in Israel, which means governed by God.
And there's just this place that the word is so beautifully divinely inspired that we see when
Jacob is in this place of perfect peace that he knows the presence of God.
He knows that he's being governed by God.
We see the Scriptures flip it to Israel.
And here he is.
He's in his bed.
He's Jacob.
He hears word that here comes his sons and then he becomes strengthened and he
arises he knows here comes the boys his loves and the grandkids and these type of things and he finds himself strengthened he finds himself governed by God do you know that the power that you have Christian to be that blessing when you go visit somebody who is weak who is sick who is
down for the count if you would.
And they come and hear Jacob.
I'm wiped out.
I'm near in the end.
Then I hear here comes my boys.
They're coming to visit and then he finds himself strengthened.
I just want to encourage you that, especially as we come into the season that we're in.
You know, sometimes we can come to the place of, I don't know if I really want to go over there.
This invite, it's taxing, it's exhausting.
I mean, some of the challenges that come were so different and were on different spectrums and beliefs and these type of things.
And it's easy to make the statement of, you know, it's just not going to work out for us.
But, you know, there's a power of, just go and visit and strengthen them.
And I want to remind you of Matthew 25, verse 34 through 40.
What Jesus is going to tell us, you know, when I was sick, when I was naked, it says, if you came to visit me.
But when we read this, I want you to see another ad and a flip to it.
It's also as if you get to become Jesus as he sends you to go minister.
And there's these times, you know, I say it all the time, you'll never be more like Jesus Christ than when you forgive somebody.
Father, forgive them.
They know not what they do.
But what a power we have of man, we get to be like Jesus Christ when we watch how He walked this earth, how He went and ministered to the sick, the dying, the hurting, the cast off, the forgottens, and then He shows up and then it's just like, that's what I want to do with you as I send you to them.
And so the power of a visit that we get to bless people and then we'll read, but we're always the one who comes out with the blessing doubled.
And that's what we're gonna read with Joseph goes to bless.
He gets the double blessing.
Then the king Matthew 25 verse 34 will say to those on his right hand, come you blessed of my father and Herod the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I was hungry and you gave me food.
I was thirsty.
You gave me drink.
I was a stranger and you took me in.
I was naked and you clothed me.
I was sick and you visited me.
I was in prison and you came to me.
Then the righteous will answer him saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry?
and feed you or thirsty and give you drink.
When did we see you a stranger and take you in or negative and clothe you, verse 39, or when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you?
Then the king will answer and say to them, surely I say to you, in as much as you did it to the one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it to me.
Oh, the power of the visit and this opportunity to get to be like Jesus in this place
that we have.
But maybe it's actually you today.
You're sick.
Maybe you're hurting.
Maybe you're hungry spiritually.
Maybe you're thirsty spiritually.
Whatever it may be, and here you are today.
I don't want to drive by this and move through this without saying, this is what the word of the Lord would say to you.
I see you.
You're not forgotten.
You're not a face in the crowd.
I don't move right by you.
You're here today because I want to speak a word to you.
The Lord would say.
And here's what the word of the Lord would say to you.
Jeremiah 2911, regardless, you may really be hurting.
I know there's a room for hurt.
There always is.
I know the thoughts that I think towards you says the Lord.
Thoughts of peace and not of evil.
to give you a future in hope.
And I want you to know what I think of you.
These are the words that the Lord would say of Jacob, and here's the words that he would say of us, Isaiah 43 verse 1.
But now, thus says the Lord who created you, O Jacob, and he who formed you, O Israel, if you're not, I redeemed you.
I have called you by name, you are mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
And through the rivers, they shall not overflow you.
When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, nor shall the flame scorch you.
For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior.
I give Egypt your ransom, Ethiopia and Shiba in your place.
And he'll say this as well in Isaiah 44, verse one through three.
Yet here now, O Jacob, my servant and Israel, whom I have chosen,
Thus says the Lord who made you and formed you from the womb, who will help you, fear not, O Jacob, my servant, and you, Yeshron, whom I have chosen, for I will pour water on him who is thirsty, and floods on the dry ground.
I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring."
I love Isaiah 40-40.
You see how it just looks like Matthew 25.
As we say, as we go and it says, going to Jesus and clothing and feeding and giving thirst and yet here in 44, he speaks it to us and he reverses it back to us.
For I will pour water on him who is thirsty and fled on the dry ground.
Maybe you feel parched.
Maybe spiritually you're just like, I've never been so spiritually dry in my life and you don't even know why.
You don't need to worry about why.
Just receive today what he's saying, I will give you
I will take that parched ground and I will turn it into a saturated with my spirit, the water, the word of God, and I will bring you back to life in these things and blessings to you and to your offspring.
Oh, what a beautiful word we see here as we look at this and we see this power that comes.
When we come, when God comes, and before I move on from that verse and you might just go,
If I do visit some people, maybe they're an assisted living, or maybe they're even in the last stage of, you know, hospice or whatever, they don't even know what I'm saying.
Here's what I can guarantee you.
I'd say a 55-11, my word shall not return void.
You just go and you sit with them.
You open the Bible and you read.
Whatever the time you have, you got 15 minutes, you got 30 minutes, I know we...
These visits don't last long, but you go and you just, they don't, they don't respond to me.
They're just here.
You just open word, you just read word.
Maybe read these verses or whatever and I will promise you this, the word of God will not return void.
But we have some stories, Renee has some stories, I have some stories of actually going into those situations, convalescent, hospice,
sitting down with somebody saying, you know, right now it's just a shell.
They can't hear, they can't respond and start to read the Word of God, speak the Word of God.
And then all of a sudden watching them come alive for a moment.
It's amazing for a moment.
They wake, they awake, they look and they connect that they are hearing you.
And then almost as soon, I'll say the same story.
When I'm done with that moment or I'm done reading, then you watch them go back into their last moments.
It's amazing, the power of the Word of God.
It will not return void.
So Joseph comes to bless in verse three and four.
We're gonna see what God will always do.
We go and we think we're gonna be the blessing.
And you will be, when you do it, you're a blessing.
Oh, God bless you for blessing.
But then how often you leave and you become the one who's blessed, not only blessed, but double blessed.
And that's what's going to happen to Joseph.
A lot of our passage today, there's only a few things where I'm going to kind of teach, you know, of here's how we tie all this through the network of the 31,102 verses in the Bible.
But most of this is just the heart of God speaking the heart of God that we might have the heart of God.
Verse three and four, then Jacob said to Joseph,
God Almighty appeared to me at love and the land of Canaan and blessed me and said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you and will make you a multitude of people and give this land to your descendants after you as an everlasting
possession.
Isn't it amazing of all the things that he could have said in this what appears to be that for them this is maybe our last time that we're going to talk and be together and he he doesn't speak and go man it's been the hard life and oh whoa is me or whatever he just immediately launches in then Jacob says is just God Almighty appeared to me.
He's speaking down there to that time there that we'll read here shortly.
when the Lord appeared to him and revealed himself and promised him to make him a great nation and to bless him.
And surely God has done all these things.
But here is it.
God appeared to me and God stayed with me.
He's going to speak of being God the shepherd and him a sheep because only you can never God call God a shepherd if you're not identifying yourself as a sheep.
And that puts on all the attributes of a shepherd.
with all the attributes of us as a sheep, and we'll see how this weaves together in our passage here.
But we're near the end.
At the end of our first, he's going to say, I must die.
He knows it.
He's not going to get to live as long 30, 40 years.
Longer did his father and grandfather live as he read the scriptures.
But Jacob Israel has perfect peace on his deathbed.
And as I said, you will know your peace level will correlate to your maturity level in the depths of your relationship with the Lord.
in the peace that you have when you're in the midst of storms, and the peace, especially when you come to the end, and you can have perfect peace.
The saint of God never needs the fear death.
Doesn't mean we want to get out of here and move on, but we never have the fear death because we know whose holds us and whose we are.
And this is Jacob, and here he is.
He has this perfect peace.
And again, it may be that's you.
And maybe this is where you're here, you're online, you're listening on the radio, and you know that this is your near.
I pray the perfect peace of God.
And maybe you're in the end of a relationship.
It's breaking your heart.
And maybe it's the end of a career that you once
held dear, whatever it may be, the word of the Lord Isaiah 26 verse 3, a promise of God, you will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts you.
Philippians 4, 6, be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God will surpass all understanding, will guard your heart and minds through Christ Jesus.
Because as Jacob would read, as he will speak, and so the word comes to us, 2 Corinthians 1, 20, for all the promises of God in him, capital H, Jesus, are yes and amen to the glory of God through us.
All the promises I made, all the promises I made to you, Jacob, have come the past.
Even at the end, he's going to say, hey, we'll see you in the next chapter next week.
When I die, take me home.
This ain't my own Joseph's going to say the same thing.
I know your promises, Lord, canons, our land, not Egypt, this world, we're going to be out of here.
But this beautiful word that the Lord speaks to us, and I love Philippians.
When we read Philippians 1,6, he who began a good work will be faithful to complete it.
In the purest sense of the reading of it, it's he who began a good work, he'll perform it.
The word complete, he'll perform this.
All we got to do is abide.
Just as the vine and where the branches, all that we have to do is just abide in him and I'll take care of these things.
It relieves all this stress upon us that we simply abide in him and let this ride out as he's going to take it, even when the things we don't understand.
And so for a word about that, just think if Jacob quit.
When the word came back, Joseph's dead, he's destroyed by wild beasts.
Where would his life chapter have ended?
If he had just quit and said, I can't follow you anymore.
I put all my faith in you, and this is my reward for being faithful.
You're faithless to me.
How about Joseph?
Where would this book have ended if when Joseph was sold in the slavery?
I did everything right.
I get sold in the slavery.
I get the proposition I will not yield because I must honor my God.
I end up in prison.
I did everything right and this is my reward.
Where would the book of Genesis end if either of these men had quit?
Where will your chapter end in your life if you quit?
What story will your children read if you should quit?
If you should say, I can't do this anymore.
Whatever it is, Lord, I've been faithful to you and I don't see what you're doing and these type of things.
All of us need this piece of information that doesn't clearly get called out but is ever so evident.
Those 22 years that Jacob thought Joseph was dead, God never told him.
that Joseph was alive.
He never came and said, it's going to be okay.
You'll see Joseph again.
He never gave any type of word regarding that.
And then here we see Joseph never giving a word.
You're going to be out of here.
And here's how it's going to play out.
You're going to interpret a dream and you'll be second.
He never gives that word.
Both of these men
were given dreams and visions to stand on.
And that's all they had.
They didn't have the details in between the fulfillment of the vision of the great nation, Joseph, the fulfillment of your family will come and bow down to you.
They never were given the in-between part other than they had to just sit and hold on by faith that God was gonna do what God did.
And here's what we see when we look at
When we look at Jacob, this is not the man we read up at Uncle Laban's.
And as we'll see, this is not the man who had the conniving trick to get the blessing from his father Isaac.
The man we read here is some other man that is totally different from that man.
And he is the fulfillment for each and every one of us of Philippians 1, 6.
He who began a good work will perform it.
He'll be faithful to complete it.
And what must we do?
It's simple as this, John 15, four and five, abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches.
He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing.
But if you take that and just reverse engineer that verse, if you would, abide in me and you can do all things in anything and everything.
And just a proof text and we'll tie this together.
We'll speak more of it in prophecy update.
Oh, and by the way, Israel, that land yours.
This is your land that I promised you and you shall have it.
And regardless of what the United Nations 4000 years later, anybody else will say.
Verse five through nine.
And now you're two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh.
who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt are mine as Reuben and Simeon.
They shall be mine.
Your offerings whom you be God after them shall be yours.
They will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
But as for me when I came from Padam,
Rachel died beside me in the land of Canaan on the way when there was, but a little distance to go to Ephraim.
And I buried her there on the way to Ephraim.
That's Bethlehem.
Then Israel saw Joseph's son and said, who are these?
And Joseph said to his father, they are my sons whom God has given me in this place.
And he said, please bring them near and I will bless them.
So we're going to see the
This blessing put upon these sons.
But as I look at verse seven, I just have to look at that and stand in amazement.
This Bethlehem weaves through from Genesis through Revelation.
No better, clearer spoken of than John 1 29.
And that's what made John the Baptist the greatest prophet.
He got to do what no other prophet did.
And that's why Jesus called him the greatest prophet.
He got to point at Jesus and say, behold the Lamb of God.
who takes away the sin of the world.
No other prophet got to say that as great as they were.
And he is tagging to the nation of Israel who would clearly know it and understand immediately when you said the lamb.
It was the Passover lamb that you went down to the temple.
You laid your hand on the head of the lamb.
And it was Leviticus one through five.
You were transferring your guilt and shame onto an innocent lamb who would take your wrath.
And it was the sacrifice and the blood would be poured.
And then there as you read
Leviticus and the sacrificial giving, the blood would be sprinkled over you and the blood would cover you only for that year until the next sacrifice.
But when Jesus would come as the final Passover, then He would atone us and would be at one mint and that's what atonement means.
At one with God and would be forgiven forever.
Bethlehem was where they would, when the temple was built, Bethlehem, it's only five miles away, maybe two and a half.
Bethlehem is where the Passover temple lambs for sacrifices would be raised.
And they had to be perfect.
And if any sheep in that in Bethlehem was imperfect, it would have to be removed because only a perfect sacrifice could be made down at the temple.
And you just see this weaving through Bethlehem all the way as we come into the Christmas season, the lamb birthed in Bethlehem.
the perfect lamb who would be the final sacrifice at the altar of the cross for the forgiveness of sin and just a beautiful weaving continually through as we look at this thing.
And especially, that's where Rachel would die, but oh, the birth would be made.
And so here we go as we move on with this, as we look at, they're coming to bless and they end up getting the double blessing we're gonna see as we read these things.
And isn't that just like it?
You know, I'm gonna bless the kids by being in the children's ministry.
I'm gonna bless by doing this in the church or whatever it be, or I'm just gonna go bless somebody by visiting them.
I will say it all the time, every time.
You know, I start with faith to put me on an airplane and sit in the same seat for 16 hours.
It takes my head
to get into this special space because it's the last thing that I want to do.
I'll just be honest with you.
Lord, I'm going in obedience.
I want to go and I want to bless these people of Nepal.
Then after you get off that 16-hour flight, then you sit in an airport and that charges you $9 for a coffee.
Anyways, then you got a six-hour flight.
And the point that I'm making is I got to get past that because, Lord, I know you called me to go there and bless these.
And whether regardless of wherever you leave, anytime you leave America, you know, I never let my passport sleep far from me because no matter what, I'm getting on that plane.
I'm getting back to America's because there is no place like America.
I'll tell you this, if you haven't left the country and
But you go, and you go through all those things, and you show up, and you go to bless, and then by the end of the first minute you're there, the first session that you're with the people, you go, man, I got double blessings.
This is amazing, the blessings that God has given me, and showing me just to be part of the see what God's doing and those things.
And that is always, anytime you serve, we always think we're going to bless, and you are,
But man, it's always you walk away with this tremendous double blessing.
Like, Lord, this was amazing.
I got to be part of this that you chose to use me and put me in this place.
In Mark 4, verse 20 through 25, the notes will be tagged to this audio at the end.
God simply saying, the measure, well, let's just read it.
But these, verse 20, these are the ones sewn on good ground.
So, parable.
Those who hear the word accept it and bear fruit some 30, 60, and 100.
And he also said to them, is the lamb?
brought to be put under the basket or under the bed?
Is it not to be set on a lampstand?
For there is nothing hidden which shall not be revealed, nor has anything been kept secret, but that it should come the light.
If anyone has ears to hear, let them hear.
Then he said to them, take heed what you hear, with the same measure you use it, it will be measured to you.
And to you who hear, more will be given.
for whoever has to him more will be given, but whoever does not have even what he has will be taken away from him.
Lord, simply saying, the measure that is pressed down will be dependent upon the measure that you give out.
If the Lord gives you this word and you respond to it, whatever it may be, I give you more because you've been faithful to it.
I give you more and you'll find that the more you're in the flow with me, the more that you'll find the flow of the Word of God flowing into your life and through your life.
Last week we looked at Luke chapter five as we were working through Genesis 47.
Jesus calls Peter after all night of toiling.
I worked all night, nothing.
Jesus comes, says to him, after he cleaned the net.
And we said, fishing from sun up, sundown to sun up, eight, 10, 12 hours.
Then you got to clean the net so it doesn't rot.
To clean the net, that's work.
Then you got to dry the net.
Then after the net's dry, you can fold it up and put it back in your boat and get ready to fish again in eight hours.
That's hard work.
And then Jesus shows up and says,
Launch out a little deeper.
Let me use your boat.
Let me teach now.
Launch out a little deeper and throw your net down for a catch.
If you're Peter, you go, if I drop this in once, just once, I have to re-clean it and re-dry it.
I'm not going home for another two hours.
But then there's something that comes when the Word of God just penetrates you and you know He's spoken to you.
And I think one of the beautiful
passages versus in all the Scripture is Peter going, Lord, I toiled all night, nothing.
I've been doing this nothing.
Maybe you've been doing something that's nothing.
You're going not just days, weeks, months.
You're on years of toiling and you see nothing.
But there's just something when the Lord looks at you and speaks to you through the Word.
And maybe it's today, right now, and you go, but nevertheless, at your Word.
and you let the net down.
And God does what only God can do.
And as I said it last week and we're talking about just think of He quit.
Maybe you're ready to quit.
Just the whole Jesus thing.
Because you just don't feel, you just feel you're toiling over and over and over and nothing.
Maybe you even feel that way in whatever ministry you've been serving.
I don't see any fruit in it.
And of course that's never the result of what we see.
It's what we,
Well done, good and faithful, not successful.
Let God determine the definition of success.
We know what the true definition of success is, faithfulness.
Nevertheless, Lord, at your word, maybe you're ready to quit your marriage.
Because you just don't see any fruit.
You've been toiling, you've been wondering.
But then there's a word that God says, and you hear.
Maybe speak and love your spouse.
You got to want to.
I'm trying to build a wall.
But nevertheless, it's your word.
I'll cast mine that down.
Oh, the beauty of God's word and the power of God's word.
And as we look at these words that the Lord gives in these places here, and we see this blessing that comes, the measure that
He will give back is the measure that we're obedient to.
This is what your word says.
And if I don't obey and I don't apply, then this is about as far as the word goes.
But if I obey it and I apply it, more of your word comes and more of your flow comes and oh, the beauty that we see here.
And so here we see that just for a context of what happening here,
that he says, Ruben and Simeon, they'll be mine.
But your two sons are mine.
And here's what we're going to read through here is that Jacob is saying, you know, I'm recognizing truly Rachel was the love of my life.
Laban did the switcharoo.
Truly, Rachel's son, you should have been my first son.
And so this is how the
Blessings are going to be laid out here that he's speaking of these things.
And just as we need this from a teaching moment here, we need this chapter and this understanding when we go and we read the book of Leviticus and Exodus and we read through the 12 tribes of Israel and these type of things because sometimes we're going to be like, well, where's Levi?
How come Ruben's not in here?
How comes Joseph's in here?
How come it's Manassas and the Ephraim and these type of things?
It will always be 12 tribes every time you read.
it, but sometimes it's going to come down to this very passage of, well, the blessing went to Joseph.
Well, the blessing went to Joseph's two sons and we're going to see there's a powerful spiritual application for us and we'll wait in a moment to get there on these things.
But when they come into the Promised Land and it comes for the inheritance of the Promised Land, Levi doesn't get any because, and this is a beautiful word for us,
Levi's inheritance as the priesthood is God.
There's nothing in this world that God could possibly give to the tribe of Levi that could be greater than the priesthood.
And there you are, the royal priesthood chosen nation, holy people.
Set apart from God.
This is not our inheritance.
There is nothing in this world.
And when we see Jacob died, Joseph died.
Bear me back in the land because this, this world ain't it.
So keep that in mind when you read the lineage, you got to come back to Genesis 48.
Now Genesis 48 verse 10.
Now the eyes of Israel were dim with age so that he could not see.
He's 147 years old.
Then Joseph brought them near and he kissed them and embraced them.
It's so fascinating and a great application for us, speaking of getting in the flow with God, is that Isaac's eyes were dim.
And he knows the blessing, Jacob hears the blessing.
He's getting ready to pass a blessing onto Esau.
And Rachel's involved in this.
Well, hey, let's go.
We got to do the old switcharoo trickaroo here.
His eyes are dimmed.
He doesn't know who you are.
Put on the fake fur and make yourself smell like wild game and these type of things.
And here's how it played out when Jacob received his blessing.
But now as we come in, Jacob now passes the blessing.
Do you notice the peace here?
There's no striving.
There's no conniving.
There's no scheming.
There's no trickery.
And the beautiful part of this is when Jacob thought that he had to force a blessing upon his life and couldn't just rest that God would do what God wanted to do in his life.
He had to go on the run.
He had to be separated from his family.
He had to go and
and do all this with Laban back and forth.
And then when he would return to the land where he was promised the land and these blessings on the land, he had the fear about being killed by his very own brother Esau.
And he forced the blessing and it brought on all that comes with trying to force something into our spiritual walk.
Here comes Joseph.
He's going to get a double blessing because both his sons are going to get the blessing.
They're going to walk in and they're going to get this blessing.
And you know what they never have to do?
Force, scheme, connive.
They can just rest in that God's going to do what God's going to do.
Jacob, God was going to do what God was going to do because he saw as we read in the book of Romans, he despised his inheritance.
And we're not going to do with the inheritance of God.
The one who received the double portion was intended to be the priest of the whole family.
And Esau didn't want it.
Jacob, God would have did what he wanted to do because it was something that you wanted.
And he would have done it for you.
And we can just rest in that ourselves.
Hey, you know what, Lord, this isn't lining up the way I want it, but I just need to rest and have peace.
And again, I'll just tell you the peace of God surpasses all understanding.
and I will give you the peace the Lord speaks to us.
When we simply go, I'm just gonna rest in your presence.
And whatever you wanna do, I'm gonna let you do and have your way to do those things.
Joseph and the boys, they just get in the flow and the flow just leads to a blessing.
Verse 11 through 14, there's no conniving and struggling.
Verse 11 through 14 reads, and Israel said to Joseph,
I had not thought to see your face, but in fact, God has also shown me your offspring.
He's thinking, I always thought you was dead.
And now, not only that, I get to see you and your boys.
So Joseph brought them from beside his knees, and he bowed down with his face to the earth.
And Joseph took them both Ephraim with his right hand toward Israel's left hand.
I know this sounds confusing, but Ephraim's the youngest.
And so,
Manassas is the one who should get the double blessing.
We're going to see it switch.
With his left hand toward Israel, right hand and brought them near him.
Verse 14, then Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on Ephraim's head, who was the younger and his left hand on Manassas head, guiding his hands knowing for Manassas was first born.
Here's what's happening.
It sounds confusion, but there's power in what God's trying to show us here is that Joseph brings the boy so that when Jacob would bring the blessing, he would just go like this.
Hands across from one another.
Right hand was the hand culturally that would be the hand of blessing.
Jesus is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
See all these beautiful things weaving together.
But Jacob,
He's going to get prophecy from the Lord, a word of knowledge that
Ephraim is the one who receives the double blessing.
And by the way, when you read through the scriptures, it will be he will have the greater blessing than Manassas.
And so here's what happened.
We're gonna see Jacob switches his hand so his hands are now crossed so that the right hand still goes on the one who's gonna get the double blessing.
So this is what it looks like as we read that in verse 15 and 16.
And he blessed Joseph and said, God before whom my father Abraham and Isaac
the God who fed me all my life long to this day, the angel who has redeemed me from all evil,
bless the lads, let my name be named upon them.
And the name of my father is Abraham and Isaac and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.
And it's the promise to God, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, the blessings of Israel that will endure forever and cannot be undone.
He's laying this blessing upon them and we'll read that as we close out here in a minute.
But oh, the power
It simply says for us in our translation, maybe you got a different translation, but it says, God before whom my father's Abraham and Isaac walked, and it says, the God who has fed me all the days.
You know, the word is actually the God Jehovah Ra.
It's more than that he fed me.
It's the word Jehovah Ra means shepherd.
The God who has shepherd me.
all the days of my life.
This is who has sustained me.
This is who has matured me.
This is who has brought me and fulfilled these things.
Genesis 28, then Jacob made a vow saying, if God will, it can be more rightly read since.
This is what he's saying.
If you do this,
Then this is what I'll do, but no, it's he has received this blessing from the Lord, the vow he's making.
Since God will be with me and keep me in this way that I'm going and give me bread to eat and clothing to put on so that I come back to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God.
And this stone, which I've said as a pillar, shall be God's house and all that you give me, I will surely give a tenth to you.
So Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the people of the East.
And here's the fulfillment of, you've done this, you've kept me, you've been more than anything and more so than this of feeding me and clothing me and these type of things, he's making, he's gone beyond that.
He's been my shepherd.
To be a shepherd, to let God be the shepherd, as I said, then we have to be the sheep.
And this is what Jacob is saying as much as the word would be for us.
Psalm 23, you know it well.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me to lie down in green pastures.
Here we see just the peace of Jacob.
He leads me besides the still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake.
Ye, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me.
Your rod and your staff, they come from me, and we see Jacob in the perfect peace, even in coming into the period of his last breaths.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my hand with oil, my cup runs over.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell dwell in the house of the Lord forever."
Do you see the capital A there in verse 16 of Genesis 48 as well?
The angel, they got it right.
They capitalized the angel because it says, who has redeemed me from all evil?
It's way more than
Any angel, it has to be the angel.
He's making a reference that it was Jesus who showed up to him.
And Isaiah 44 verse 24 says, thus says the Lord, your Redeemer.
He who formed you from the womb.
I am the Lord who makes all things, who stretches out to heavens all alone, who spreads abroad the earth by myself.
I not only made the heavens and the earth in these things.
I made you in your mother's womb and I am the one who redeemed you.
And then of course it's a picture of the cross to come the one who redeemed you from your sin.
And only the angel of the Lord Jesus Christ can redeem.
No angel can redeem.
And this is what Jacob is passing the blessing on.
It was God the shepherd.
And it's interesting.
Great book, Philip Keller's book, Psalm 23.
A shepherd's look at Psalm 23.
Just a beautiful book.
I'd really encourage you.
Great reading.
It's a classic of old for sure.
But it's interesting that he speaks, because we're looking at Jacob.
He's a wanderer.
He never, it wasn't that he walked in this perfect obedience.
And so we see this beautiful word that he's speaking to us, even when I was wayward, God shepherded me, even when I stole a blessing, even when I was where I shouldn't have been doing things I shouldn't have done.
And maybe you can relate to that.
And God's like, I was with you all along, Jacob.
Even when you were doing what you shouldn't have done in the conniving and the scheming, going after the things of the flesh more than the things of the Spirit.
I was working.
I was with you.
It was very much Philippians 1, 6.
He began a good work, but faithful to perform it.
I did it.
I kept you.
And now here he is in the latter years of his life recognizing God shepherded me all the way through even when I didn't deserve it, even when he should have just cast me off.
And again, I said, when I was in Nepal, I got this whole new appreciation for shepherds as I watched them.
And it was amazing to me because it's a very much an Hungarian culture over there, so much different from America and the likes of it.
But when I would pass shepherds and shepherds, when they stopped, the sheep stopped.
When they walked, the sheep walked.
The sheep knew this is my shepherd, and I don't go anywhere else.
And amazingly, if sheep would pass, they wouldn't go follow a different shepherd.
They would only follow their shepherd.
My sheep hear my voice, John chapter 10.
Beautiful pictures of these things, but in his book, Philicala, or a shepherd's look at Psalm 23, they tell, and they say, he says, when a sheep would wander, and many of you know this, when a sheep would wander, the shepherd would have to break the sheep's leg.
Said it.
Set the bone, bind it, wrap it, put it on the shoulder and carry it until it would heal.
Because see, a wandering sheep could wander over the cliff.
A wandering sheep could find itself in the thicket and never find its way out with all that wool.
A wandering sheep could deviate from where the shepherd's eye is upon it and find itself devoured by a wolf.
For the enemy comes, John 10, 10, the steel kill and destroy.
these pictures that he gives, and the shepherd would say, after that sheep's leg would heal, the wandering sheep prone to wander.
Once that leg healed, after he carried it for all those weeks, and he put that sheep back down next to his side, that sheep would never wander again.
every sheep would follow wherever that shepherd was.
It knew that this is my shepherd and it spent all that time in the present smelling the shepherd and being knitted together with the shepherd.
And we see this beautiful picture of the Lord that's spoken of here.
Jacob is telling his story, man, I was a wandering sheep and God didn't let me go.
I was a wandering sheep and he fed me, closed me, nourished me and all these things.
And there's a place that I simply
in my prayer life, especially.
I love to just write down these compound names of God and just let them wash over.
This is who my God is.
And again, maybe it's what you need to hear today.
I hope we've all heard this, Jehovah Ra, Psalm 23, the Lord God, my shepherd.
You shepherd me, regardless,
and you keep me and you hold me.
But maybe you need here today this Exodus 1715, the Lord God, your banner, Jehovah Nissi.
He puts a banner over us, and I think a song, a song, and the banner of love over us.
He puts a banner over us.
I see it with his name, and underneath of it is us who are his, and his banner of love is over us.
And let the whole world know that.
Let the devil know this one's mine, and my banner is over them.
You come to them.
You're coming against me.
Jehovah Raffa, the Lord God of healer.
Maybe you need a healing touch today.
Physically, spiritually, mentally, emotionally.
Jehovah Jairah, Genesis 22, the Lord God provides.
Maybe you need a provision from the Lord and He's going to provide.
The Lord materially, there's something going on.
The situation in our home, my finances, whatever it may be.
I love this one anytime and all the time.
Judges 624, Jehovah Shalom.
The Lord God, our peace.
And I get a piece which passes understanding when I come and know this is who is holding me and has me in his arm.
Jehovah Shama, Ezekiel 48, 35, the Lord God our ever-present one.
Jehovah Saboth, the Lord God, the host of army, 1 Samuel 1, 3.
And here's one, Jehovah to Sid Canoe, Jeremiah 23, 6, the Lord God our righteousness, 2 Corinthians 5, 21.
He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God.
Jacob's going to say, I must die now.
And all of us will need to be made right before him, through the righteousness of God, the perfect Passover lamb, birth in Bethlehem.
And Jehovah McSheedom, Leviticus 20, verse 8, the Lord God who sanctifies.
And I love that as I look at my life, and I'm always reminded, God, you're far from done.
You're still working.
Whatever your need is, Father, I pray that you would meet those needs.
peace, a provider, a shepherd.
Verse 17 and 18, as we close this, then when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him.
So he took hold of his father's hand and removed it from Ephraim's head to Manasseh's head.
And Joseph said to his father, not so, my father.
For this one is the first born, put your right hand on him.
Joseph's trying to fix Jacob knows what he's doing.
Verse 19 and 20, but the father refused and says, I know my son, I know he also shall become a people.
He also shall be great, but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he and his descendants shall become a multitude of nations.
Verse 20, so he blessed them that day saying, by you, Israel will bless saying, may God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh.
And thus he set Ephraim before Masses.
He's prophesying.
He is knowing that Ephraim will be greater, read through the scriptures.
That's how it's going to play out.
And I love this and there's a power here.
And if you join us for the prophecy update, it's one of the reasons we do the prophecy update every month, so the culture doesn't change us.
so that we can see through the culture and we can put up and go, well, this is where the culture's trying to move the church.
The church should move the culture.
The culture should not move the church.
We, the culture shouldn't give us what definitions are.
We are the church and the word of God defines what definitions are across the board and all these things.
The church should be the one who says, this is what God thinks of Israel, not what the world cares what the world says.
And when you look at this, the switch of the younger and older
God countered the culture.
The culture was always that the oldest gets the double blessing, whether it's Israel or even the surrounding.
Well, Isaac becomes greater.
Isaac was younger.
He was greater than Ishmael.
Jacob was younger.
He was greater than Esau.
Moses was younger than Aaron.
Moses was the greater.
And David was the youngest and he became the king.
And what's my point that I'm making here is God will counter the culture to make sure that
the culture knows God determines and we do not.
God doesn't and neither shall the church be influenced by the culture.
What God chooses to do is what God chooses to do.
And it's a beautiful word for us.
Verse 21, then Israel said to Joseph, Behold, I am dying.
Another translation literally can read, I must die.
But God will be with you and bring you back to the land of your Father.
And we'll see in the next chapter.
His bones will be taken out.
And then verse 22, Moreover, I have given you one portion above your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amorite with my sword and my bow.
We don't know when this happened, but it happened.
When he came into Canaan, the Amorites came.
He had to draw sword and he took the land interesting just as
for an FYI, the word there for portion is the word Shechem.
It's modern-day nebulous in Israel.
That's in the West Bank.
And we will be praying today in the prophecy update that President Trump and the rest of them stay out of the dealings of the land of Israel.
Because Joel 3-3 says, what are those who divide up the land?
Let's just stay out of it and let God decide who land it is.
But this passage right here, the West Bank,
God has clearly given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
But I just say, in closing up the worship team, come back.
But just a word for anyone here today who does not know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior.
Jacob declares it, well, I must die.
And there is Hebrews 9.
It's appointed the man to dive once and then the judgment.
If you're here today and you do not know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, it's what I described there, the lamb became man.
And that God man died for you as the lamb of God.
Why is it called Passover?
Because when they put the blood over the door, death passed over anyone and everyone.
that the blood was passed over and in the book of Leviticus.
And again, this is if you've never have made this decision in the book of Leviticus, chapters one through five.
When you went down to the temple to make that Passover sacrifice, you would take your hand and you would put it on the head of an innocent lamb.
And it was symbolic of transferring your guilt and shame onto that innocent lamb.
And that lamb would go to the altar there at the temple and that lamb would be slain.
And then the priest would take that blood and sprinkle the blood over the person and that blood representing the covering of the cleansing and death would pass over.
In that case, only for one year until the next Passover.
But for us, the final sacrifice, Jesus Christ, once and for all, it was a cleansing forever and a promise forever and always.
And if you've never made that,
commitment, John 3 16, for God so loved the world that he gave has only begotten Son, that whoever should believe in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life.
If you've never received Jesus, you're perishing because your sin separates you from the Holy God, you're broken as holy law, and you will continue to perish in your sin if you don't do something about your sin.
And the only thing you can do about your sin
is the layer hand on the head of the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ who takes away the sin of the world and puts your sin onto him and let him take your sin to the cross and let God's full wrath be poured out on the cross so that you can take the place as a son or daughter just like Jesus Christ.
If we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, Romans 10, we shall be saved.
The power of the gospel
is a resurrected Jesus Christ.
And it proves that God accepted that sacrifice and buried that sin and shame in the grave.
And the resurrection rose from the dead is what our promise shall be.
So if you've never done that, I pray you make that decision today, because it's a decision that must be made.
And if you want to talk more, we have people that will talk with you today.
And for the rest, may I read these words to you that we can enjoy these words.
Jehovah Ra our shepherd would speak to you this great peace.
We've so wonderfully, we had this in last week's message.
And the Lord spoke to Moses saying, speak to Aaron and his son saying, this is the way you shall bless the children of Israel.
Say to them, the Lord bless you and keep you.
The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you.
The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace Shalom.
So they shall put my name on the children of Israel and I will bless them.
Lord, I thank you for such a pastoral heart through this passage that you gave us.
And of course, because it's the great shepherd passages, we would look at this in the Old Testament, the shepherd who fed, protect, kept, performed, Jacob and brought him to the man that he is.
is the same God that shepherds us as we receive you as a shepherd because we are just sheep of your pastor.
And we can rest today in the great place that our shepherd is over us and he'll do all the other things of peace, provision, righteousness, everything that you promised because you are never lasting God and you outlast even all the things of the world and even our foolishness.
So thank you Lord, we bless you and I pray a blessing upon your people.
And would you receive this worship as a sacrifice here at the altar that comes up as sweet incense because you're worthy to receive all glory.
And I pray this in your name, amen.